hey guys welcome to my channel welcome
to a blog today I'm gonna answer your
questions that you asked me an Instagram
if you're not yet subscribed to my
Instagram a sling murmur you know
there's a mess of this channel today
after having your own Silicon Valley
doing some work-related stuff and I'm
gonna take you with me I just had lunch
at Subway
bad bad habit but it is so
tastes so good I feel so good after yeah
let's do it
[Music]
okay tell you our plan we're gonna go
see well I'm gonna see a colleague and
give him my book that came out in
Russian he understands Russian I'm
working on translating it into English
so you could enjoy it guys as well it
talks about my it talks about my
immigration journey it should be useful
question number one that you've asked
should everyone move to the US would you
recommend it to everyone
absolutely not when I first moved here
it was rough it was stuff like many
people struggle to find jobs I think
moving when you think that moving to a
new country would solve all of your
problems it's not gonna do it because
the way I thought about immigration the
way I thought about moving to the US is
that it's gonna give me additional boost
I already knew what I was gonna do I
wanted to run my company and I
understood that if I'm in Silicon Valley
I didn't move to like Arizona I didn't
move to New York I'm up specifically to
Silicon Valley because I realized that
this place is gonna boost my company and
yeah that was the goal but if you think
that oh I'm so miserable in my country I
don't know what to do and I'm gonna move
to America and then the miracle would
happen and I would finally realize what
I want to do in my life it's not gonna
happen you just could have spent a lot
of money here and then that's it so no I
would not recommend moving to America to
everyone let's go I arrived at a cafe
I'm gonna grab some coffee for a friend
question I'm gonna move to the u.s. in a
week any advice first congratulations
you're gonna love it
and it's gonna be tough so get ready for
difficulties there's a lot of paperwork
involved like getting SSN and stuff but
my most important advice is to hang out
with local people because it's so easy
to start communicating with people from
your country in your own language and
then get stuck into it I see so many
people who come to me and say hey Marina
can you send me some where they live in
America and they asked me to send them
somewhere in America away from their
place from their home because they want
to disconnect from that community so the
best thing you can do is to go to a
local university if you're going to
study then problem is solved but if not
just please please please diversify your
community talk to locals do things that
locals do don't just stick to you know
people from your own country that's my
number one advice
meeting done I'm in mangu my favorite
place this is where my story started in
America and I decided to clean my car
because there is so much trash here I've
been to Yosemite this weekend and we
have a lot of coffees and waters and
stuff in the car
and then I'm gonna take it to cleaners
and I'm answering your next question and
the question is marina have you worked
on your accent yes of course I have when
I came to the US I had British / Russian
accent I still have Russian accent I
hear it but hearing your own accent is
number one step because if you hear it
you're gonna get rid of it the thing
that helped me a lot was the course by
my friend Vania who has no accent he
came to America at the age of 18 he has
24 now he has no accent like he's being
like a native speaker and he taught me
where to put my tongue he taught me
intonation
he pinpointed my mistakes and his course
is also available on lingo trip the link
is below
so yes you need to work in your accent
first take a course identify your
mistakes
second listen to yourself record videos
record podcasts and listen to whatever
is going on and third try to mimic other
people so what I do all the time
still working if you watch my videos
from one year ago you're gonna hear the
difference it's definitely changed
especially like if you watch my first
videos my accent is completely different
next question were you rich when you
moved to the US I don't know if having
$2,000 for the next six months is
considered rich when you're moving to
the US this is what we had together with
Dima my husband he was my boyfriend back
then so the idea was to come here and to
get the investment and we got an offer
to get like $100,000 investment into a
company not in us not in our pockets but
it took them three months to transfer
money and we're here in this city and we
spend our last money on getting and by
the way ahead of pressed buttons and we
had to get a car and our first cart was
like 2700 we actually borrowed some
money from our CTO as well so no I don't
think I was rich when I came here we
barely could afford like going to eat
and I was counting every dollar and I
relied on my mum as well to send me like
maybe like five hundred dollars a month
just to survive here
it was tough but it taught us life
the dog was performing fool
you're like most here on steam ahead is
Sochi and we're going to a pizza place
for me to have my dinner next question
is f-1 student visa a good way to
immigrate to the US the answer is the f1
visa is not an immigration visa so you
can study for five years you can study
for 10 years this wouldn't lead you to a
green card but I have a whole video
about it if you're doing like a master's
program or bachelors program here or
even like a certificate program that's
longer than nine months you get a work
permit which is called OB seems like and
if it's masters in a stem subject like
science technology engineering
mathematics you get three years of work
permit and your goal is to find an
employer it's good to sponsor your work
visa and there are also other ways like
starting a company something that with
it oh I got some beautiful flowers
starting a company and applying for an
o1 transferring from your local company
to an American company l1 the link will
be
prices we only Verde 19 las Sonia 19
surprised how Palo Alto is different
from San Francisco San Francisco America
can be really cold really it is kind of
cold today any of your people wear
dresses flip and it feels like somewhere
amazing and it's like 40 minute ride
your next question what is more
beneficial reading a book or listening
to an audio okay I have a spirit here
so basically when the book is about
business anything is gonna give you a
lot of useful advice that you want to
work on I would read it like if I'm
reading a book on like how to build an
international company how to sell online
or like : marketing book I would try to
read it because this way I would be able
to stop I would be able to write things
down and I would be able to read them
once again if I didn't catch something
but if I understand that this is a book
about motivation or maybe just a novel
like a detective story I would just
listen to it because it's okay if I miss
something
it's okay if I fall asleep because I
normally would listen to audiobooks when
I'm flying and my average flight it was
like 10 hours so I would listen to like
a couple audiobooks when I apply it
sometimes I fall asleep sometimes I'm
distracted by dinner orange on the
airplane and it's ok if I miss like a
chapter two it doesn't really matter so
this is my approach to deciding whether
to read an actual book or to get an
audience
dimitri question Ujima
where do you see yourself living in five
years
San Francisco no it just wants it
in 20 years
Marylyn
people are asking whether we're gonna
move back to Russia
definitely 19 you know like travel back
and forth good not moving
our homeless I like this approach I
don't actually see myself like spending
full time in Russia because there are
some things that I would totally miss I
traveled to Russia like last year I was
there four times and when I'm there I
definitely miss the Sun everyone is
California culture but yeah I see myself
traveling by the foil and hopefully
we're gonna own properties all over the
world and just travel like the idea
we go to Mercer Ella we got
non-alcoholic beer and mushrooms
nice right
just realized how cool een everything is
we just met a couple of fire guys Wow
okay every single detail
[Music]
next question what is the most
economical state to study in the US
okay so there are a couple of states
that are cheaper than others for example
for some cities in Florida you would
need around eleven thousand dollars a
year to support yourself and that
includes everything your accommodation
food travel etc your tuition fees come
separately but it would take for example
this Baltimore when I got accepted to
Johns Hopkins they told me that I need
to show at least $30,000 a year on my
bank account to support myself so bigger
cities are always more expensive Silicon
Valley super expensive but if you look
at like South Carolina North Carolina
especially like smaller towns Arizona
you would have like a budget of around
ten thousand dollars a year and this is
I would say the minimum like eight to
ten thousand dollars the minimum if
that's too much look at Canada Canada is
even cheaper we talked to the
firefighters they were craving dinner
with some pictures of the car and
Broadway's sold friendly-like especially
if they hear the accent they are you
from doing it's a good picture
yeah
this is the famous palm drive it goes
directly to Stanford University and this
is what we're going
[Music]
the next question is it better to move
to the u.s. at a young age or after 20 I
still think that after it leaves the
young age I don't consider myself old
yet I would say if you see yourself
living in the u.s. later I would
definitely move as early as possible
because that would allow your accent to
improve faster you're gonna learn a lot
more things and you're gonna integrate
in the society faster but sometimes you
cannot because when I was 17 I really
wanted to study abroad but I didn't have
money I didn't have resources my English
was not that good so it would have been
impossible but then I grew up I was 25
years old when I actually got like all
the scholarships and stuff and that
became possible so if you have an
opportunity now I would go now if you
don't have it I would start working hard
working on your English working on
researching your opportunities research
in universities and chasing your dream
let me show you Stanford
when I first came here to Stanford I was
so jealous I was like oh my god those
students they have the sunshine
year-round they have foam trees they
have the best education in the world oh
my god they're so lucky and we just love
to come here to walk around
deema took some courses here so he feels
like a real student was amazing yeah
it's called Stanford continuing studies
it's like short term for local people oh
yeah amazing amazing atmosphere amazing
feelings that everything is achievable
amazing feeling that Google has been
developed here that a lot of companies
grew out of Stanford and you just feel
that you're in the center of innovation
by the way guys this video is brought to
you by Alan Goethe and you know that
language has opened all the borders in
our lives
they let us travel they let us get
education abroad
so when Goethe starting this marathon
it's gonna start on May 27th and it's
gonna last three months and the thing
about this marathon is that you take
classes every single day and if you do
that you get a hundred percent refund
so again if you take all of the classes
you get a hundred percent refund if you
take half of the classes like every
other day you get 50 percent refund
which is a huge motivation I think to
actually start learning and you know
when you learn a language it's all about
consistency it's all about doing
something every single day and will then
go to you train in small online groups
with native speakers which allows you to
get the real accent to get the words
that native speakers are using and not
just stay in your own environment
because in Russia will unfresh in
English obviously and it had some hard
time when I came here and realized I
need to change some words in Burma that
I've learned you can take this marathon
in English German Spanish French and
business English and it doesn't matter
if you're a complete beginner there's so
many levels you can find something that
says you you need to sign up for the
marathon before May 13th in order to
sign up you would need to face $6 but
guess what because you're watching this
video
lingo de is waiving this fee for you
again
sign up for the marathon before May 13th
the link is below the promo code is here
and start learning a language every
single day for the next three months
over ten thousand people has already
participated inland Goda's marathons let
me continue answering your questions now
is it difficult to talk to American
people absolutely not
Americans I mean people who born in
America are absolutely friendly they are
so nice first they are used to access
because America is a country of
immigrants and if you're trying to talk
to people they would ask you where
you're from and what are you doing here
and they would only smile sometimes they
would not understand that you're
non-native speaker and it's hard for you
together accent now you can always ask
them to speak slower but this is like
when you're a tourist when you come here
as an entrepreneur or maybe you want to
get a job you need to make sure you
understand access and advanced level of
English would really really help you
because you you pitched our company with
lower level of English right yes was it
hard to begin with it was very hard yeah
but after Rodney I get used to it and
when
was better than better I was tired
though when we first came here back in
2015 when dima had to pitch the company
his English was not really good and he
was always like Oh marina can you do
that for me and I was bitching linguae
trip on the stage at 500 startups
because yes there is some barrier
especially when you try to sell your
company to investors and then you have
this language barrier thing but again if
you're coming as an English language
student if you're coming just as a
tourist Americans are really nice and
even if you're pitching your company and
you have difficulties I've talked to so
many founders here and they told me like
there's a guy my friend is also from
Russia
he raised in total 8 million dollars
when he had his first interview with an
investor who invested he didn't even
understand questions his co-founder had
to punch him under the table when he had
to answer and he learned all of the
answers by heart because he couldn't
speak English but they said message
because the company was really good so
there is this like difference there as
well but again the better your English
is the easier it will be for you to come
here and to be successful in the US
what is the most overrated thing about
life in the u.s. I think when you're
abroad and you're just looking at people
who live in America you think everything
is so easy because I don't normally
share like days when I have problems at
work or I have problems with my
documents like I share it after because
I feel that if I overcame some problem
if I have the solution it's worth
sharing if I'm still struggling with it
I don't want to depress other people so
this is my approach and a lot of people
don't like to share their difficulties
and you only see the success stories and
this is what happened to me when I first
came here I'm like everyone is so
successful no one has ever failed
everyone is raising money everyone is
like getting their green cards and I am
going through those struggles is it just
me but no everyone is struggling here
and I think this is open like the
success rate is overrated
because people just don't share their
failures maybe the guy who shared that
he braced like I don't know 10 million
dollars in his startup didn't share that
before that he had three companies that
he had to shut down because people just
don't like sharing those stories but I
like there is the moment that people you
know want to highlight the problems that
they had before to encourage others who
are struggling at that moment to fight
and to move on
like jasmine but it's not Jasmine this
could be you coming to the airport in
San Francisco at some stage I realized I
could actually recognize where the
airplane is coming from because I know
that there is like a 2 p.m. of tons of
flight from Frankfurt I heard that there
is like a New York flight coming from
from New York to San Francisco because I
used to live very close to the airport
and every time like a big airplane would
arrive
it would make such loud sounds I would
hear them in my bedroom so I knew the
schedule
[Music]
we got home guess what are my plans for
tonight cleaning that's right thank you
guys so much for watching this video if
you have more questions subscribe to my
Instagram lingua Marina I'm doing this
Q&A from time to time so you have an
opportunity to ask a question if you
don't have Instagram you can ask
questions in comments down below and I
will see you soon in the next videos
they're coming out next week next week
expect two more videos from me see you
soon and Tao